---
title: "Design, Fabrication and Control Architecture of Double Wheeled Self-Balancing Robots"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "ASU, Three Minute Presentation"
date: 2012-03-01
location: "Tempe, Arizona"
---

The Self-balancing bot is a multi-variable, naturally unstable and an under-actuated system, driven by dual control torques applied
independently to each wheel components. The chassis, indirectly actuated, is prone to strike states of unstable equilibrium, which
resorts to failure in maintaining its vertical position. A quick response towards the preceding tilt stabilization requires a certain
bandwidth thus, having a possibility of being restricted by the right hand plane pole which imposes a minimum bandwidth limitation
on the system. On a separate note, the right hand plane zero associated with the model imposes a maximum bandwidth limitation on
the Segway wheel position. As such, a classical conventional loop would result in poor sensitivities. This invokes the need for a
control architecture apart from the conventional loop such as the cascade control loop. To further realize and investigate this design
in hardware and potentially enhance the controller performance, measures via control tuning, improved state estimation, anti-windup
conditions are introduced. We demonstrate the advantages and disadvantages of a conventional loop to project the need for cascade
control approaches by using exemplary numerical studies and hardware demonstrations using the help of employed state-of-the-art
controllers.
